# Premier-Talent-Sports-and-Entertainment-Work

Throughout the Spring 2021 semester, I have been interning at Premier Talent Sports and Entertainment (PTSE), a sports agency and entertainment company which represents and supports professional baseball players and personalities in entertainment. The company is run and managed by industry experts such as former major and minor league players, former major league scouts, attorneys, and collegiate starts. PTSE uses analytics to provide information to allow agents to pursue their clients’ interests and help the clients make decisions. I thought this was a unique opportunity because I would attain the chance to apply my analytical skills while gaining knowledge of an industry that I didn’t think I would initially be interested in. 

When I interviewed for the position, I used my knowledge of baseball statistics that I learned from my QTM 110 professor, Dr. Montagnes. I talked about how I knew that baseball was a very individualized sport and that one player;s performance doesn’t rely on another player’s performance. This makes it possible for a team of data analysts to create a good baseball team. This phenomenon is unlike other sports, like football, in which one player’s performance is dependent on another player’s performance which makes it hard to garner statistics and evaluate a single player. I quickly came to realize how I could translate my QTM 110, QTM 100, QTM 150, and QTM 151 knowledge to this internship, which involved my R visualization skills, hypothesis testing, knowledge of correlation and causation, and implementation of other statistical concepts. 

At the beginning of the internship, I was placed in a team of four. Two of my teammates had extensive knowledge in baseball, while I had more expertise in analytics and statistical software like R. Each week or every other week, our team was assigned a project. Some of these projects were geared towards providing insights that would help PTSE find undervalued players. We did this by identifying baseball metrics that would help identify undervalued players and creating a formula with these metrics to score and compare players. I then identified players with salaries that were too low for their score and labelled these players as “undervalued”. Other projects focused on predicting which players will be successful in the future based on metrics we thought were important. Similar to the projects described earlier, I helped create a formula for scoring players and then formulated projected scores. In addition to our analysis, we created aesthetically pleasing reports. While these projects were less oriented towards data analysis, they served as invaluable experiences since I learned how to present my insights in a marketable way and communicate my findings to a less technical audience. These reports were directed towards PTSE’s potential clients of the undervalued players that I helped identify. By highlighting our analysis in the reports, we presented convincing arguments as to why the potential clients were undervalued and why they should become a client of PTSE. 
	
In each project, I used R and/or Excel to conduct my analysis. I used the ggplot2 and dplyr packages that I learned about in QTM 150 and QTM 151 to construct tables and graphs to identify trends and present findings. In one of the projects, I tested the hypothesis that the post-All-Star break performance in a season would be predictive of the pre-All-Star break performance in the next season. To test this hypothesis, I used correlation tests and hypothesis testing in R that I learned about in QTM 100 to determine if there was a statistically significant correlation between player performance post-All-Star break in one season and player performance pre-All-Star break the following season. By using the average change in each statistic, I helped create predicted scores for players in the future. 

Because this internship was a baseball analytics internship, I underwent a large learning curve. Baseball is a sport I was initially unfamiliar with, which posed challenges in understanding some of the details of projects. There are tens of baseball statistics that exist, with new ones being generated as technology improves. I needed to learn and understand how these statistics related differently to pitchers and hitters. There were many times I had to ask my teammates for clarification on the metrics, but I learned more as time passed by. I also learned about general internship and job skills from my internship supervisor who would tell me how to approach analytical problems in a business environment and push me to dig deeper into my analysis when I presented insights to him. I also grew curious about how machine learning and predictive analytics are being used in baseball, and asked related questions about this topic to my internship supervisor. I learned that machine learning is being used to predict which players would succeed and which wouldn’t. I started thinking about the benefits of data science and analytics to predict outcomes and improve conditions.

Through this internship, I learned many invaluable hard skills in data analysis and soft skills. I gained real-world experience pulling data, aggregating data, analyzing the data according to several metrics to determine player strengths and weaknesses, creating analytical positions to test, creating aesthetically pleasing reports to present our insights, and presenting my insights to the internship supervisor. I also learned how to work with teammates who had more industry knowledge than I did while I provided my experience in R, and gained experience project managing and presenting insights to a professional audience. I am excited to continue to apply the skills I have learned in my classes and this internship to my future endeavors in data analytics and data science. 
